welcome to recap in minutes humans
try to colonize a new planet
but discover an uncharted paradise
with a threat beyond their imagination
and must attempt a harrowing escape alien
conventive spoilers ahead watch out and take care
the film starts with business magnate
peter weyland speaking to his creation
a newly activated android david weyland refers to
himself as david's father and hopes to use david
in seeking out the answers to humanity's creation
david questions weyland regarding his mortality
and how david will live on long after whalen
dies weyland responds by making david serpenty
in the year 2104 a colonist ship the covenant is
seven years from reaching an uninhabited planet
called orego 6. it is comprised of a 15-person
crew with approximately 2 000 colonists in stasis
and 1140 human embryo on board the android
walter an advanced android model that physically
resembles david sets up the solar sails on the
ship as he goes to check on the colony's embryos
moments later the covenant is hit with a neutrino
blast walter rushes to wake up the remaining 14
human crew from their stasis captain jacob
is trapped in his pod when his stasis pod
malfunctioned and is burned alive his wife daniels
watches jacob perish as she helplessly tries
to save him the rest of the crew is taken
out safely daniels grieves for her husband
she watches a video of him scaling a mountain
with him telling her he wishes she were there
chris assumes the position as the ship's captain
the crew gives jacob a send-off and ejects his
body into space the crew tends to the ship's
damage a crew then picks up a transmission
appearing to be sent from another human the rest
of the crew listens to the transmission as well
chris picks up that the transmission came from
a nearby planet within the reach of a few weeks
from where they are which apparently has a more
habitable atmosphere than origin six and not to
mention it would take seven years and four months
before they reach or get six and nobody is willing
to go back into hypersleep of stasis chris chooses
to go down there despite objections from daniels
she believes this new perfect planet is too good
to be true before heading down to the planet
chris expresses to his wife corrine that the crew
doesn't have much faith in him taking the mantle
as captain while tennessee maintaining
covenant mothership in orbit with medic
upworth and her husband ricks tennessee's wife
maggie flies a shuttle to the planet's surface
the rest of the crew steps down and
begins to observe their surroundings
karine and a crew member ledward dispatch from the
crew to follow up an ecology workup of the planet
the crew come across the crashed alien ship
which is where the transmission came from
upon entering the ship they see a holographic
projection of dr elizabeth shaw who had sent the
message daniels even comes across her dog tags two
crew members ledward and hallett who is with the
other crew inadvertently step on black spores that
release small clouds that fly into their ear and
nose respectively both men start to feel sick and
weak karine guides ledward back to the shuttle for
medical attention as he pukes blood on her karine
and maggie tender ledward who starts violently
convulsing maggie quarantines ledward with karine
still inside the room ledward coughs up more blood
and then has something start to break out of his
back a small neomorph emerges from ledward's back
spilling his guts out as he dies the creature
pounces on karine and mauls her to death
maggie returns and tries to shoot at the neomorph
missing every shot when tennessee learns she is
in danger he attempts to bring the ship down to
the surface to save her but upworth talks him
out of it she ends up hitting a tank causing the
shuttle to explode killing herself in the process
as the neomorph escapes tennessee and chris
soon learn of the deaths of their wives
meanwhile hallett starts to get worse another
neomorph emerges this time out of hallett's mouth
the creature attacks a security member by ripping
off his lower jaw and throat hallett's husband
sergeant lope warns him the other neomorph attacks
the remaining crew walter protects daniels from it
and loses his hand to the creature's corrosive
acid blood the crew eventually shoots it dead
a cloaked man shows up and fires a flare scaring
the other neomorph off into the darkness he leads
the crew away to a temple in a city full of dead
humanoid it's android david from the beginning
of the movie he tells the crew that he and dr
elizabeth came down upon the city of the humanoids
but their ship released a deadly bioweapon
that killed the entire humanoid population
and elizabeth died when the ship crashed walter
bonds with david over their shared creation and
interest in the ways of their creators david shows
walter a flute and teaches him how to play it
david takes walter to a view upon the ruins of the
city david quotes azamandias through a flashback
it is shown that david descended upon the humanoid
city and unleashed the black spores upon them
intentionally killing all the humanoids meanwhile
attempts to radio the covenant are stymond by ion
storms another security member rosenthal steps
away to clean herself off she then comes face to
face with the now grown neomorph who rips her
head off and starts devouring the rest of her
david comes across the neomorph and approaches it
gently and try to communicate with the creature
only for it to be shot dead by chris moments
later to david's horror chris demands to know
what's really going on and what david is up to
david explains that he used a black liquid from
the planet as an experiment in creating new life
forms he observed that the creatures used hosts
and killed them upon their perth david brings
chris to a chamber filled with xenomorph eggs
tricking chris david assures him it's safe chris
looks into the egg as it opens up and a facehugger
pops out and wraps itself around chris's head and
neck soon a creature bursts out of chris's chest
killing him it appears to have fully formed limbs
and mimics david as he makes specific movements
as others search for chris and rosenthal
walter finds elizabeth's dissected corpse
used by david as material for his evolving
creature design david tells walter that
humanity is a dying species which is why they are
trying to save themselves through colonization
when walter disagrees david gently kisses walter
before ripping something out of him and disabling
him at the same time daniels discovers the corpse
of dr elizabeth who appears to have had something
burst out of her chest as well sergeant lope
and crew member cole get found by the creatures
lope is attacked by a facehucker cole quickly cut
it off leaving lope with acid burns on his face
cole is killed by the rapidly growing creature
that came out of chris lope is taken out to safety
david attempts to go after daniels he pins
her to the ground and forces a kiss on her
walter returns and starts to fight david letting
daniels get out walter appears to gain the upper
hand but david is seen reaching for a knife
tennessee descends to the planet's surface
and another lander to rescue daniels lope and
walter who says david has expired meaning dead
the now fully grown xenomorph rushes to attack
the crew as tennessee flies them out of there
daniels is attached to a harness as she
swings around trying to kill the monster
tennessee tries to fry it under the turbines
but the xenomorph evades the fire daniels orders
tennessee to release the lander's crane despite
the fact that it would throw them off balance
tennessee does so and daniels manages to get the
creature trapped in the crane she turns the crane
on and crushes the xenomorph the survivors make it
back to the covenant upward tends to lopes facial
burn daniels in tennessee comfort each other after
all they've been through and losing her loved ones
daniels also tends to walter though she
senses that something may be off about him
an unidentified life form is detected on the ship
daniels in tennessee run to the med bay and find
lope dead with something having burst out of his
chest the two detect the creature's whereabouts
it stalks up worth and ricks as they have their
intimacy in the shower the xenomorph uses its
second mouth to go through rick's head before
killing him and upwards daniels lures the creature
into the vehicle bay walter opens the hatch as
daniels tries to get the xenomorph to fall out
a large vehicle starts rolling toward
daniels she manages to duck out of the way
as the vehicle impales the xenomorph and
drops out of the ship back down to the planet
covenant resumes its voyage to orgy 6. daniels and
tennessee go back to their original mission plan
as they return to hypersleep daniels puts
tennessee to sleep and is prepared to have walter
do the same for her before she sleeps she asks
walter if she'll help him build a cabin by the
lake referencing something she told him earlier
he doesn't immediately respond and daniels quickly
realize it is david she screams and tries to break
out but david puts her to sleep he goes over to
the refrigerator of embryos and regurgitates
two alien embryos which he places in the cold
storage with the human embryos and inspect the
colonists posing as walter david then records
one last transmission reporting all crew members
except daniels in tennessee were killed by the
earlier solar flare incident before heading off on
his own mission thanks for watching please don't
forget to subscribe and turn on the notification
bell to get notice when a new video is uploaded